## Creating Functions

There are two main ways of defining functions:

- function declaration
- function expression

If a statement starts with the `function` keyword, then you have a function declaration:

`function myFn() {}`

But if you assign a function to a variable, you have a function expression:

`const fnRef = function myFn() {};`

**Note** that you need a semi colon at the end of a function expression, but there are no semi colons at the end of function declarations.

## Function Inputs and Outputs

You can pass values into and return values from a function. For example, you can make a function that takes two numbers and `returns` the result of adding them:

```javascript
function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

If you notice, the inputs to the function are placed inside the parenthesis separated by commas. Note that `a` and `b` represent the inputs to the function. If you don't specify any return values for your function, JavaScript will return `undefined` by default:

```javascript
function fn() {
  const a = 1;
  // other stuff.
  // no return.
}
fn(); // `undefined` is returned.
```
Note that arguments are always passed by value to functions. The value could be a primitive or a reference value in the case of non-primitives. This means that if you assign the argument to another value or thing, it will not affect the thing outside of the function:

```javascript
const n = 1;
function change(x) {
  x = 5;
}
console.log(n); // 1;
change(n);
console.log(n); // 1;
```

It doesn't matter what is passed in, the behavior is consistent, even if the input is a non-primitive (an object):

```javascript
const n = {value: 1};
function change(x) {
  x = {};
}
console.log(n); // {value: 1};
change(n);
console.log(n); // {value: 1};
```

However, if you decide to change the property of the object that the reference is pointing to, the object will be mutated:

```javascript
const n = {value: 1};
function mutate(x) {
  x.value = 22;
}
console.log(n); // {value: 1}
mutate(n);
console.log(n); // {value: 22}
```

As you can see, arguments passed to functions are always copied. In the case of primitives, the actual values are copied, and the case of non-primitives, the reference is copied and becomes available in the function and assigning the argument to another thing does not change the original value.


### The `arguments` Object

Every function in JavaScript has access to the magical `arguments` object inside the function body that contains the arguments passed to a function. Let's look at a basic example to demonstrate how you can access the `arguments` object.

In this example, we are going to create a function called `sum` that is going to simply return the `arguments` object when it is called:

```javascript
function sum() {
  return arguments;
}
```

When you call the function with `sum(1,2,3)`, you can see that `arguments` is an object with three keys and values:

```javascript
{
  '0': 0,
  '1': 1,
  '2': 2
}
```
So it is important to note that the `arguments` object is not an array object. This means that `arguments` does not inherit array methods and the following returns false:

```javascript
const args = sum(1,2,3);
Object.getPrototypeOf(args) === Array.prototype; // -> false
```

As of ES2015, you can use the `Array.from` method to convert an iterable object like the `arguments` object to an array. Alternatively, you can call the `slice` method of `Array.prototype` in the context of the `arguments` object to return an array containing the values:

```javascript
const args = sum(1,2,3);
const argArray = Array.prototype.slice.call(args); // -> [1,2,3]
Object.getPrototypeOf(argArray) === Array.prototype // -> true
```

## Executing a Function

A function can be executed. This is generally known as calling a function. You can call a function by using the name of the function, followed by `()`:

```javascript
add();
```

Notice that we are calling the functions without any inputs. Let's give the function to numbers as inputs:

```javascript
add(1,2); // -> 3
```

In addition to the `()` operator, there are 3 other ways to invoke a function. That is, using:

- `call`
- `apply`
- and the `new` keyword before invoking the function with `()`

So for our simple example, let's call the function using all these methods and explore when you would want to use each method.

### `Function.prototype.call`

When you use `call` to invoke a function, the first argument is the value of the context object. And the second argument is the parameters separated by commas:

```javascript
add.call({}, 1,2); // -> 3
```

### `Function.prototype.apply`

Using `apply` is similar to `call`, except instead of passing the arguments one by one separated by commas, you pass the arguments in an array:

```javascript
add.apply({}, [1,2]); // -> 3
```

### Calling Function with `new`

You call a function with the `new` keyword when you want to use the function to create objects. So you wouldn't really call the `sum` function above with the `new` keyword. When a function is called with the `new` keyword, couple of things happen behind the scenes:

- A new empty object is created
- The context object `this` is bound to the new empty object
- The new object is linked to the function's prototype property
- `this` is automatically returned unless another value is returned explicitly from the function

This is the mechanism provided by JavaScript to link objects with prototype objects. We will learn more about them later in the book, but for now just remember that these functions are known as constructor functions and by convention, their name starts with an uppercase letter. Let's look at a simple constructor function that can be used to create `Car` objects:

```javascript
function Car() {
  this.color = 'black';
}
const myCar = new Car();
myCar.color; // -> 'black'
```

As you can see, in the function we use the context object `this` to assign the `color` property. And then we call the function using the `new` keyword and assign the result to the `myCar` variable. Now, `myCar` is the object created by the `Car` constructor function.

### Context Object `this`

The context object, `this` is a dynamic object which is set dynamically depending on the way a function is called. There are several rules to follow in order to figure out what `this` is bound to.

First, check if the function of interest is called with the `new` keyword. If so, then `this` is bound to the new object created by the function. If not, check if the function is being called with `call` or `apply`, if so, the first argument tells you what the value of `this` is bound to. If not, check if the function is called in the context of another object, `(someObj.fn())`, if so, then `this` is bound to the object. If none of these cases are met and the function is simply invoked without any context, `this` will be bound to the global object in `non-strict` mode. However, in the `strict mode`, the value of `this` will be `undefined`.


Let's look at some examples and see how the context object is bound to.

The first example, is just a review from the previous section. That is calling a function with the `new` keyword. When you can a function with the `new` keyword, the context object is bound to the instance object created by the function:

```javascript
function Car() {
  this.color = 'Black';
}
const myCar = new Car();
```

To figure out how `this` is bound, we look at the line where the function is called. In this case, the function is called with the `new` keyword, so then we know that the context is bound to the new object that is going to be returned by the function. This is the case that you always have to check first, because it over rules the other ones.

In the next example, we are going to call a function with `call` and `apply`:

```javascript
function printMessage(msg) {
  return msg + ' ' + this.name;
}
const message = printMessage.call({name: 'Amin'}, 'Welcome!');
// -> 'Welcome! Amin'
```

In the example above, we look at the line where the function is called and you can see the function is called by `call` and the value of `this` is explicitly passed as the first parameter. So inside the function, `this` will be bound to `{name: 'Amin'}` and when we call the function, it will return the following result:

```bash
'Welcome! Amin'
```

The `apply` case is very similar to the case above, except we would pass the arguments in an array, but the value of `this` will still be bound to the first argument passed, that is: `{name : 'Amin'}`:

```javascript
function printMessage(msg) {
  return msg + ' ' + this.name;
}
const message = printMessage.apply({name: 'Amin'}, ['Welcome!']);
```
The output is the same as the `call` example, and the important thing to note here is that when you call a function with `call` or `apply`, the first argument is the context object that will be used inside the function as `this`.

The next case, to look in order, is when a function is called in the context of another object. So first let's create an object and define a method on it and then call the method in the context of the object:

```javascript
const util = {
  name: 'Utility',
  getName: function () {
    return this.name;
  }
};
const name = util.getName(); // -> Utility
```

Again first we look at the line where the function is called to determine how `this` is bound to. When you look at the area of function call, you can see the function is called in the context of the `util` object, that is `util.getName()`. So the context object is implicitly bound to the `util` object.

The last case, is when a function is called without any context. Using the sample `util` object above, we can assign the `getName` function to a variable and then call the function without any context:

```javascript
const util = {
  name: 'Utility',
  getName: function () {
    return this.name;
  }
};
const getName = util.getName;
const name = getName();
```

In this case, when the function is called, the context object by default is set to the global object. So if you are in the browser, `this` will be bound to the `window` object, and if you are on the server, `this` will be bound to the `global` object.

It is important to note however, in `strict mode` the value of `this` will be undefined if you call a function as is:

```javascript
function setName(name) {
  'use strict';
  this.name = name;
}
setName();
```

When you run the function above, we will get the following error:

```bash
TypeError: Cannot set property 'name' of undefined
```

The reason is that in `strict mode`, `this` will be set to `undefined` when you call the function without a context. So setting the property on something that is `undefined` is going to throw an error. This is a good thing because then you wouldn't end up setting properties inadvertently on the global object.




